CS 131 A6 - ANN IRIS SPECIES CLASSIFICATION
Author: Perucy Mussiba
Date: May 1st 2024
Purpose: README for ann.py


Files: ann.py
Purpose: ann.py implements artificial neural networks algorithm to classify iris plants species.
        The program begins by processing the data from the ANN - Iris data.txt file whereby the attributes and
        classes are extracted followed by hot encoding of the classes' labels. The processed data is then split into
        training and test sets, then the training and validation sets for training purposes.

        The neural network is implemented to have 1 input layer composed of 4 neurons, 2 hidden layers containing 5 and
        10 neurons respectively and lastly an output layer with 3 neurons. Thorough testing was done starting with 2
        hidden layers of 3 neurons each and the number of neurons was varied until the number of neurons that results
        to a 90% and above accuracy is obtained.

        The algorithm randomly initializes weights in a range [-1, 1] and a bias of 1 for each neuron. The weights
        and biases are organized in a 2D array to depict their position between layers. The program uses the sigmoid
        function as the activation function during forward propagation and keeps track of activation values of each
        neuron and layer for future use in backward propagation.

        The backward propagation determines the error and gradients of weights and biases to update the weights and
        biases during the learning process. After learning is done in an approximate 500 iterations the accuracy
        of the training and validation sets is printed. 500 was chosen because at the suitable learning rate of
        0.1, iterations above 500 the model over fits and then under fits.

        The program simulates user query to allow user input of features of the specie they intend to classify. The
        program then prints the predicted specie name after training and validation is done.

Assumptions:
    - Learning rate = 0.1
    - Activation function = sigmoid function
    - Number of iterations (epochs) = 500
    - Bias = 1

Acknowledgement: ANN class notes and programming websites on training of artificial neural networks (GeeksforGeeks)